---
title: 'About Me'
date: 2024-11-13
permalink: /posts/2024/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

<style>
.tooltip {
    position: relative;
    cursor: pointer;
}
.tooltip .tooltiptext {
    visibility: hidden;
    width: 30vw;
    background-color: rgba(192,192,192,1);
    color: rgba(255,255,255,1);
    text-align: left;
    border-radius: 10px;
    padding: 10px;
    position: absolute;
    z-index: 1;
    bottom: 125%;
    left: 0%;
    margin-left: -10vw;
    opacity: 0;
}
.tooltip.show .tooltiptext {
    visibility: visible;
    opacity: 1;
}
</style>


<script>
function toggleTooltip(element) {
    element.classList.toggle('show');
}
</script>


<p>I am Jianhai Shu (舒建海), a junior undergraduate student from <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">China<span class="tooltiptext">Hefei City, Anhui Province</span></span>. I am currently pursuing a double major in <span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(224,128,192,1);">Mathematics and Physics</span> and <span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(224,128,192,1);">Energy and Power Engineering</span> at <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">Weiyang College<span class="tooltiptext">未央书院</span></span>, <a href="https://www.tsinghua.edu.cn/en/">Tsinghua University</a>.</p>

<p>My undergraduate program combines rigorous theory and pragmatic thinking. On the one hand, my coursework includes foundational subjects like <span style="font-style: italic;">Calculus</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Linear Algebra</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Fundamentals of Physics</span>, and <span style="font-style: italic;">Probability Theory</span>. On the other hand, it contains specialized studies in <span style="font-style: italic;">Material Mechanics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Engineering Thermodynamics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Fluid Mechanics</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Heat Transfer</span>, <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">and so on<span class="tooltiptext">Lab. of Physics A, Numerical Analysis, Combustion Theory, Fundamentals of Control Engineering, Big Data and Artificial Intelligence for Engineering, ...</span></span>. I learned a lot from extensive study, and the diverse background has equipped me with a robust understanding of real-world problems.</p>

<p>I also actively take elective courses beyond my program to strengthen my fundamental knowledge. Driven by a strong interest in data science, I took <span style="font-style: italic;">Advanced Linear Algebra</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Linear Regression Analysis</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Multivariate Statistical Analysis</span>, <span style="font-style: italic;">Time Series Analysis</span>, and <span style="font-style: italic;">Data Structures and Algorithms</span>, which keeps benefiting my understanding of mathematics, statistics, and programming. I am passionate about using interdisciplinary approaches to bridge theory and application, and in the future I will keep exploring more topics of interest through courses or self-teaching.</p>

<p>Aside from school coursework, I take the initiative to explore new fields and develop new skills as well. I proactively learned python programming before my freshman year, which turned out to be essential in my future courses and research projects. In pursuit of accuracy and reusablity, I also learned LaTeX to compile <a href="/resources/">notes</a> as a study profile. Additionally, I learned web front-end development with HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Vue.js, enabling me to build customized web pages and applications (including this site). And skills like Git and <a href="https://github.com/Celestopia">GitHub</a> have streamlined project management and collaboration for me. Learning new techniques has always been a way to deepen my understanding of the world. <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">In the future, I will keep my footstep in exploring various fields and make my own contributions.<span class="tooltiptext">Out of entertainment interest, I may also explore image processing, wave processing and music composition (wish I have the time😄).</span></span></p>

<p>Beyond study, I have a relaxed lifestyle. In my leisure time, I enjoy playing anime games and rhythm games. I have been a Bilibili content creater for 5 years, sharing fragments of online entertainment. <span class="tooltip" onclick="toggleTooltip(this)">I love music as well. I learned piano for eight years in my childhood, and in recent years I'm especially obsessed with pop music and electronic music<span class="tooltiptext">I will try to make my own ones in the future!🥰</span></span>. Photography is also one of my hobbies, as it provides a record of my life and the world around me. Moreover, I enjoy outdoor activities like hiking and long-distance running. Maybe keeping the balance between work and leisure is the key to my energetic and optimistic mindset.</p>

<!--Last update: 2025-06-28-->

<p><span style="font-style:italic; color: rgba(32,32,32,0.3);"><br/><br/><br/>The pursuit of knowledge knows no bounds, and the joy of discovery is limitless. In the relentless journey toward understanding, one finds profound fulfillment and enduring satisfaction.</span></p>


